doc/sphinx/reference/varnishtop.rst, before:

============
varnishtop
============

-------------------------
Varnish log entry ranking
-------------------------

:Author: Dag-Erling Smørgrav
:Date:   2010-05-31
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 1



SYNOPSIS
========

varnishtop [-1] [-b] [-C] [-c] [-d] [-f] [-I regex] 
[-i tag] [-n varnish_name] [-r file] [-V] [-X regex]
[-x tag]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The varnishtop utility reads ``varnishd(1)`` shared memory logs and
presents a continuously updated list of the most commonly occurring
log entries.  With suitable filtering using the ``-I``, ``-i``, ``-X``
and ``-x`` options, it can be used to display a ranking of requested
documents, clients, user agents, or any other information which is
recorded in the log.

The following options are available:

-1          Instead of presenting of a continuously updated display, 
	    print the statistics once and exit. Implies ``-d``.

-b          Include log entries which result from communication 
	    with a backend server.  If neither ``-b`` nor ``-c`` is
	    specified, varnishtop acts as if they both were.

-C          Ignore case when matching regular expressions.

-c          Include log entries which result from communication 
	    with a client.  If neither ``-b`` nor ``-c`` is specified, 
	    varnishtop acts as if they both were.

-d          Process old log entries on startup.  Normally, varnishtop 
	    will only process entries which are written to the log 
	    after it starts.

-f          Sort and group only on the first field of each log entry.  
	    This is useful when displaying e.g. stataddr entries, 
	    where the first field is the client IP address.

-I regex    Include log entries which match the specified regular 
   	    expression.  If neither ``-I`` nor ``-i`` is specified, all log 
	    entries are included.

-i tag      Include log entries with the specified tag.  If neither ``-I``
   	    nor ``-i`` is specified, all log entries are included.

-n          Specifies the name of the varnishd instance to get logs from.  
	    If ``-n`` is not specified, the host name is used.

-r file     Read log entries from file instead of shared memory.

-V          Display the version number and exit.

-X regex    Exclude log entries which match the specified regular expression.

-x tag      Exclude log entries with the specified tag.

EXAMPLES
========

The following example displays a continuously updated list of the most
frequently requested URLs:::

  varnishtop -i RxURL

The following example displays a continuously updated list of the most
commonly used user agents:::

  varnishtop -i RxHeader -C -I ^User-Agent

SEE ALSO
========

* varnishd(1)
* varnishhist(1)
* varnishlog(1)
* varnishncsa(1)
* varnishstat(1)

HISTORY
=======

The varnishtop utility was originally developed by Poul-Henning Kamp
in cooperation with Verdens Gang AS and Linpro AS, and later
substantially rewritten by Dag-Erling Smørgrav.  This manual page was
written by Dag-Erling Smørgrav.

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same licence as Varnish
itself. See LICENCE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2006 Verdens Gang AS
* Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Redpill Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2010 Varnish Software AS

Commit message:

Add -p $period to varnishtop
Make it possible to specify the period varnishtop should integrate
numbers over.  This makes it easier to figure out per time period
stats.

doc/sphinx/reference/varnishtop.rst, after:

============
varnishtop
============

-------------------------
Varnish log entry ranking
-------------------------

:Author: Dag-Erling Smørgrav
:Date:   2010-05-31
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 1



SYNOPSIS
========

varnishtop [-1] [-b] [-C] [-c] [-d] [-f] [-I regex] 
[-i tag] [-n varnish_name] [-r file] [-V] [-X regex]
[-x tag]

DESCRIPTION
===========

The varnishtop utility reads ``varnishd(1)`` shared memory logs and
presents a continuously updated list of the most commonly occurring
log entries.  With suitable filtering using the ``-I``, ``-i``, ``-X``
and ``-x`` options, it can be used to display a ranking of requested
documents, clients, user agents, or any other information which is
recorded in the log.

The following options are available:

-1          Instead of presenting of a continuously updated display, 
	    print the statistics once and exit. Implies ``-d``.

-b          Include log entries which result from communication 
	    with a backend server.  If neither ``-b`` nor ``-c`` is
	    specified, varnishtop acts as if they both were.

-C          Ignore case when matching regular expressions.

-c          Include log entries which result from communication 
	    with a client.  If neither ``-b`` nor ``-c`` is specified, 
	    varnishtop acts as if they both were.

-d          Process old log entries on startup.  Normally, varnishtop 
	    will only process entries which are written to the log 
	    after it starts.

-f          Sort and group only on the first field of each log entry.  
	    This is useful when displaying e.g. stataddr entries, 
	    where the first field is the client IP address.

-I regex    Include log entries which match the specified regular 
   	    expression.  If neither ``-I`` nor ``-i`` is specified, all log 
	    entries are included.

-i tag      Include log entries with the specified tag.  If neither ``-I``
   	    nor ``-i`` is specified, all log entries are included.

-p period   Specifies the number of seconds to measure over, the default
            is 60 seconds. The first number in the list is the average
            number of requests seen over this time period.

-n          Specifies the name of the varnishd instance to get logs from.  
	    If ``-n`` is not specified, the host name is used.

-r file     Read log entries from file instead of shared memory.

-V          Display the version number and exit.

-X regex    Exclude log entries which match the specified regular expression.

-x tag      Exclude log entries with the specified tag.

EXAMPLES
========

The following example displays a continuously updated list of the most
frequently requested URLs:::

  varnishtop -i RxURL

The following example displays a continuously updated list of the most
commonly used user agents:::

  varnishtop -i RxHeader -C -I ^User-Agent

SEE ALSO
========

* varnishd(1)
* varnishhist(1)
* varnishlog(1)
* varnishncsa(1)
* varnishstat(1)

HISTORY
=======

The varnishtop utility was originally developed by Poul-Henning Kamp
in cooperation with Verdens Gang AS and Linpro AS, and later
substantially rewritten by Dag-Erling Smørgrav.  This manual page was
written by Dag-Erling Smørgrav.

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same licence as Varnish
itself. See LICENCE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2006 Verdens Gang AS
* Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Redpill Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2010 Varnish Software AS
