doc/sphinx/reference/vcl.rst, before:

.. _reference-vcl:

===
VCL
===

------------------------------
Varnish Configuration Language
------------------------------

:Author: Dag-Erling Smørgrav
:Author: Poul-Henning Kamp
:Author: Kristian Lyngstøl
:Author: Per Buer
:Date:   2010-06-02
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 7

DESCRIPTION
===========

The VCL language is a small domain-specific language designed to be
used to define request handling and document caching policies for the
Varnish HTTP accelerator.

When a new configuration is loaded, the varnishd management process
translates the VCL code to C and compiles it to a shared object which
is then dynamically linked into the server process.

SYNTAX
======

The VCL syntax is very simple, and deliberately similar to C and Perl.
Blocks are delimited by curly braces, statements end with semicolons,
and comments may be written as in C, C++ or Perl according to your own
preferences.

In addition to the C-like assignment (=), comparison (==) and boolean
(!, && and \|\|) operators, VCL supports regular expression and ACL
matching using the ~ operator.

Unlike C and Perl, the backslash (\) character has no special meaning
in strings in VCL, which use the (%xx) escape mechanism just like
URLs, so it can be freely used in regular expressions without
doubling.

Strings are concatenated by just putting them one after each other
without any operator in between.

Assignments are introduced with the set keyword.  There are no
user-defined variables; values can only be assigned to variables
attached to backend, request or document objects.  Most of these are
typed, and the values assigned to them must have a compatible unit
suffix.

VCL has if tests, but no loops.

The contents of another VCL file may be inserted at any point in the
code by using the include keyword followed by the name of the other
file as a quoted string.

Backend declarations
--------------------

A backend declaration creates and initializes a named backend object:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
  }

The backend object can later be used to select a backend at request time:::

  if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
    set req.backend = www;
  }

To avoid overloading backend servers, .max_connections can be set to
limit the maximum number of concurrent backend connections.

The timeout parameters can be overridden in the backend declaration.
The timeout parameters are .connect_timeout for the time to wait for a
backend connection, .first_byte_timeout for the time to wait for the
first byte from the backend and .between_bytes_timeout for time to
wait between each received byte.

These can be set in the declaration like this:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .connect_timeout = 1s;
    .first_byte_timeout = 5s;
    .between_bytes_timeout = 2s;
  }

To mark a backend as unhealthy after number of items have been added
to it's saintmode list .saintmode_threshold can be set to the maximum
list size. Setting a value of 0 disables saintmode checking entirely
for that backend.  The value in the backend declaration overrides the
parameter.

Directors
---------

Directors choose from different backends based on health status and a
per-director algorithm.  There currently exists a round-robin and a
random director.

Directors are defined using:::

  director b2 random {
    .retries = 5;
    {
      // We can refer to named backends
      .backend = b1;
      .weight  = 7;
    }
    {
      // Or define them inline 
      .backend  = {
        .host = "fs2";
      }
    .weight         = 3;
    }
  } 

The random director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The random director takes one per director option .retries.  This
specifies how many tries it will use to find a working backend.  The
default is the same as the number of backends defined for the
director.

There is also a per-backend option: weight which defines the portion
of traffic to send to the particular backend.

The round-robin director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The round-robin does not take any options.

The DNS director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The DNS director can use backends in three different ways. Either like the
random or round-robin director or using .list::

  director directorname dns {
          .list = {
                  .host_header = "www.example.com";
                  .port = "80";
                  .connection_timeout = 0.4;
                  "192.168.15.0"/24;
                  "192.168.16.128"/25;
          }
          .ttl = 5m;
          .suffix = "internal.example.net";
  }

This will specify 384 backends, all using port 80 and a connection timeout
of 0.4s. Options must come before the list of IPs in the .list statement.

The .ttl defines the cache duration of the DNS lookups.

The above example will append "internal.example.net" to the incoming Host
header supplied by the client, before looking it up. All settings are
optional.


Backend probes
--------------

Backends can be probed to see whether they should be considered
healthy or not.  The return status can also be checked by using
req.backend.healthy .window is how many of the latest polls we
examine, while .threshold is how many of those must have succeeded for
us to consider the backend healthy.  .initial is how many of the
probes are considered good when Varnish starts - defaults to the same
amount as the threshold.

A backend with a probe can be defined like this:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .probe = {
      .url = "/test.jpg";
      .timeout = 0.3 s;
      .window = 8;
      .threshold = 3;
      .initial = 3;
    }
  }

It is also possible to specify the raw HTTP request::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .probe = {
      # NB: \r\n automatically inserted after each string!
      .request =
        "GET / HTTP/1.1"
        "Host: www.foo.bar"
        "Connection: close";
    }
  }

ACLs
----

An ACL declaration creates and initializes a named access control list
which can later be used to match client addresses:::

  acl local {
    "localhost";         // myself
    "192.0.2.0"/24;      // and everyone on the local network
    ! "192.0.2.23";      // except for the dialin router 
  }

If an ACL entry specifies a host name which Varnish is unable to
resolve, it will match any address it is com‐ pared to.  Consequently,
if it is preceded by a negation mark, it will reject any address it is
compared to, which may not be what you intended.  If the entry is
enclosed in parentheses, however, it will simply be ignored.

To match an IP address against an ACL, simply use the match operator:::

  if (client.ip ~ local) {
    pipe;
  }

Grace
-----

If the backend takes a long time to generate an object there is a risk
of a thread pile up.  In order to prevent this you can enable grace.
This allows varnish to serve an expired version of the object while a
fresh object is being generated by the backend.

The following vcl code will make Varnish serve expired objects.  All
object will be kept up to two minutes past their expiration time or a
fresh object is generated.::

  sub vcl_recv {
    set req.grace = 2m;
  }
  sub vcl_fetch {
    set beresp.grace = 2m;
  }

Functions
---------

The following built-in functions are available:

regsub(str, regex, sub)
  Returns a copy of str with the first occurrence of the regular 
  expression regex replaced with sub. Within sub, \0 (which can 
  also be spelled &) is replaced with the entire matched string, 
  and \n is replaced with the contents of subgroup n in the 
  matched string.

regsuball(str, regex, sub)
  As regsuball() but this replaces all occurrences.

purge_url(regex)
  Purge all objects in cache whose URLs match regex.

Subroutines
~~~~~~~~~~~

A subroutine is used to group code for legibility or reusability:::
  
  sub pipe_if_local {
    if (client.ip ~ local) {
      pipe;
    }
  }

Subroutines in VCL do not take arguments, nor do they return values.

To call a subroutine, use the call keyword followed by the subroutine's name:

call pipe_if_local;

There are a number of special subroutines which hook into the Varnish
workflow.  These subroutines may inspect and manipulate HTTP headers
and various other aspects of each request, and to a certain extent
decide how the request should be handled.  Each subroutine terminates
by calling one of a small number of keywords which indi‐ cates the
desired outcome.

vcl_recv
  Called at the beginning of a request, after the complete request has
  been received and parsed.  Its purpose is to decide whether or not
  to serve the request, how to do it, and, if applicable, which backend
  to use.

  The vcl_recv subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass    
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  pipe    
    Switch to pipe mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pipe.

  lookup  
    Look up the requested object in the cache.  Control will
    eventually pass to vcl_hit or vcl_miss, depending on whether the
    object is in the cache.

vcl_pipe
  Called upon entering pipe mode.  In this mode, the request is passed
  on to the backend, and any further data from either client or
  backend is passed on unaltered until either end closes the
  connection.

  The vcl_pipe subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pipe
    Proceed with pipe mode.

vcl_pass
  Called upon entering pass mode.  In this mode, the request is passed
  on to the backend, and the backend's response is passed on to the
  client, but is not entered into the cache.  Subsequent requests sub‐
  mitted over the same client connection are handled normally.

  The vcl_pass subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Proceed with pass mode.

vcl_hash
  Use req.hash += req.http.Cookie or similar to include the Cookie HTTP
  header in the hash string.  The vcl_hash subroutine may terminate with
  one of the following keywords:

  hash
    Proceed.

vcl_hit
  Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was found in the cache.

  The vcl_hit subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  deliver
    Deliver the cached object to the client.  Control will eventually
    pass to vcl_deliver.

vcl_miss
  Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was not found
  in the cache.  Its purpose is to decide whether or not to attempt to
  retrieve the document from the backend, and which backend to use.

  The vcl_miss subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  fetch
    Retrieve the requested object from the backend.  Control will
    eventually pass to vcl_fetch.

vcl_fetch
  Called after a document has been successfully retrieved from the backend.

  The vcl_fetch subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  deliver
    Possibly insert the object into the cache, then deliver it to the
    client.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_deliver.

  esi
     ESI-process the document which has just been fetched.

vcl_deliver
  Called before a cached object is delivered to the client.

  The vcl_deliver subroutine may terminate with one of the following
  keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  deliver
    Deliver the object to the client.

If one of these subroutines is left undefined or terminates without
reaching a handling decision, control will be handed over to the
builtin default.  See the EXAMPLES section for a listing of the
default code.

Multiple subroutines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If multiple subroutines with the same name are defined, they are
concatenated in the order in which the appear in the source.

Example:::

	# in file "main.vcl"
	include "backends.vcl";
	include "purge.vcl";

	# in file "backends.vcl"
	sub vcl_recv {
	  if (req.http.host ~ "example.com") {
	    set req.backend = foo;
	  } elsif (req.http.host ~ "example.org") {
	    set req.backend = bar;
	  }
	}

	# in file "purge.vcl"
	sub vcl_recv {
	  if (client.ip ~ admin_network) {
	    if (req.http.Cache-Control ~ "no-cache") {
	      purge_url(req.url);
	    }
	  }
	}

The builtin default subroutines are implicitly appended in this way.

Variables
~~~~~~~~~

Although subroutines take no arguments, the necessary information is
made available to the handler subroutines through global variables.

The following variables are always available:

now   
  The current time, in seconds since the epoch.

The following variables are available in backend declarations:

.host
  Host name or IP address of a backend.

.port
  Service name or port number of a backend.

The following variables are available while processing a request:

client.ip
  The client's IP address.

server.hostname
  The host name of the server.

server.identity 
  The identity of the server, as set by the -i
  parameter.  If the -i parameter is not passed to varnishd,
  server.identity will be set to the name of the instance, as
  specified by the -n parameter.

server.ip
  The IP address of the socket on which the client connection was received.

server.port
  The port number of the socket on which the client connection was received.

req.request
  The request type (e.g. "GET", "HEAD").

req.url
  The requested URL.

req.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used by the client.

req.backend
  The backend to use to service the request.

req.backend.healthy
  Whether the backend is healthy or not.

req.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

The following variables are available while preparing a backend
request (either for a cache miss or for pass or pipe mode):

bereq.request
  The request type (e.g. "GET", "HEAD").

bereq.url
  The requested URL.

bereq.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used to talk to the server.

bereq.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

bereq.connect_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait for a backend connection.

bereq.first_byte_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait for the first byte from the backend.  Not
  available in pipe mode.

bereq.between_bytes_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait between each received byte from the
  backend.  Not available in pipe mode.

XXX: Aren't these beresp now?

The following variables are available after the requested object has
been retrieved from cache or from the backend:

obj.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used when the object was retrieved.

obj.status
  The HTTP status code returned by the server.

obj.response
The HTTP status message returned by the server.

obj.cacheable
  True if the request resulted in a cacheable response.  A response is
  considered cacheable if it is valid (see above), and the HTTP status
  code is 200, 203, 300, 301, 302, 404 or 410.

obj.ttl
  The object's remaining time to live, in seconds.

obj.lastuse
  The approximate time elapsed since the object was last requests, in
  seconds.

obj.hits
  The approximate number of times the object has been delivered. A value 
  of 0 indicates a cache miss.

The following variables are available while determining the hash key
of an object:

req.hash
  The hash key used to refer to an object in the cache.  Used when
  both reading from and writing to the cache.

The following variables are available while preparing a response to the client:

resp.proto
  The HTTP protocol version to use for the response.

resp.status
  The HTTP status code that will be returned.

resp.response
  The HTTP status message that will be returned.

resp.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

Values may be assigned to variables using the set keyword:::

  sub vcl_recv {
    # Normalize the Host: header
    if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
      set req.http.host = "www.example.com";
      }
   }

HTTP headers can be removed entirely using the remove keyword:::

  sub vcl_fetch {
    # Don't cache cookies
    remove obj.http.Set-Cookie;
  }

EXAMPLES
========

The following code is the equivalent of the default configuration with
the backend address set to "backend.example.com" and no backend port
specified:::

  backend default {
   .host = "backend.example.com";
   .port = "http";
  }

.. include:: ../../../man/default.vcl
  :literal:

The following example shows how to support multiple sites running on
separate backends in the same Varnish instance, by selecting backends
based on the request URL:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "80";
  }
  
  backend images {
    .host = "images.example.com";
    .port = "80";
  }
  
  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
      set req.http.host = "www.example.com";
      set req.backend = www;
    } elsif (req.http.host ~ "^images.example.com$") {
      set req.backend = images;
    } else {
      error 404 "Unknown virtual host";
    }
  }

  The following snippet demonstrates how to force a minimum TTL for
  all documents.  Note that this is not the same as setting the
  default_ttl run-time parameter, as that only affects document for
  which the backend did not specify a TTL:::
  
  sub vcl_fetch {
    if (obj.ttl < 120s) {
    set obj.ttl = 120s;
    }
  }

The following snippet demonstrates how to force Varnish to cache
documents even when cookies are present:::

  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "GET" && req.http.cookie) {
    call(lookup);
    }
  }
  
  sub vcl_fetch {
    if (beresp.http.Set-Cookie) {
    deliver;
   }
  }

The following code implements the HTTP PURGE method as used by Squid
for object invalidation:::

  acl purge {
    "localhost";
    "192.0.2.1"/24;
  }

  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
    if (!client.ip ~ purge) {
      error 405 "Not allowed.";
    }
    lookup;
    }
  }

  sub vcl_hit {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
      set obj.ttl = 0s;
      error 200 "Purged.";
    }
  }

  sub vcl_miss {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
    error 404 "Not in cache.";
    }
  }

SEE ALSO
========

* varnishd(1)

HISTORY
=======

The VCL language was developed by Poul-Henning Kamp in cooperation
with Verdens Gang AS, Linpro AS and Varnish Software.  This manual
page was written by Dag-Erling Smørgrav and later edited by
Poul-Henning Kamp and Per Buer.

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same licence as Varnish
itself. See LICENCE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2006 Verdens Gang AS
* Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Redpill Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2010 Varnish Software AS

Commit message:

Return(refresh) from VCL recv, allowing a controlled refresh of content (for example from a script). Does not deal with Vary in any particular fashion.
git-svn-id: http://www.varnish-cache.org/svn/trunk/varnish-cache@5065 d4fa192b-c00b-0410-8231-f00ffab90ce4

doc/sphinx/reference/vcl.rst, after:

.. _reference-vcl:

===
VCL
===

------------------------------
Varnish Configuration Language
------------------------------

:Author: Dag-Erling Smørgrav
:Author: Poul-Henning Kamp
:Author: Kristian Lyngstøl
:Author: Per Buer
:Date:   2010-06-02
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 7

DESCRIPTION
===========

The VCL language is a small domain-specific language designed to be
used to define request handling and document caching policies for the
Varnish HTTP accelerator.

When a new configuration is loaded, the varnishd management process
translates the VCL code to C and compiles it to a shared object which
is then dynamically linked into the server process.

SYNTAX
======

The VCL syntax is very simple, and deliberately similar to C and Perl.
Blocks are delimited by curly braces, statements end with semicolons,
and comments may be written as in C, C++ or Perl according to your own
preferences.

In addition to the C-like assignment (=), comparison (==) and boolean
(!, && and \|\|) operators, VCL supports regular expression and ACL
matching using the ~ operator.

Unlike C and Perl, the backslash (\) character has no special meaning
in strings in VCL, which use the (%xx) escape mechanism just like
URLs, so it can be freely used in regular expressions without
doubling.

Strings are concatenated by just putting them one after each other
without any operator in between.

Assignments are introduced with the set keyword.  There are no
user-defined variables; values can only be assigned to variables
attached to backend, request or document objects.  Most of these are
typed, and the values assigned to them must have a compatible unit
suffix.

VCL has if tests, but no loops.

The contents of another VCL file may be inserted at any point in the
code by using the include keyword followed by the name of the other
file as a quoted string.

Backend declarations
--------------------

A backend declaration creates and initializes a named backend object:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
  }

The backend object can later be used to select a backend at request time:::

  if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
    set req.backend = www;
  }

To avoid overloading backend servers, .max_connections can be set to
limit the maximum number of concurrent backend connections.

The timeout parameters can be overridden in the backend declaration.
The timeout parameters are .connect_timeout for the time to wait for a
backend connection, .first_byte_timeout for the time to wait for the
first byte from the backend and .between_bytes_timeout for time to
wait between each received byte.

These can be set in the declaration like this:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .connect_timeout = 1s;
    .first_byte_timeout = 5s;
    .between_bytes_timeout = 2s;
  }

To mark a backend as unhealthy after number of items have been added
to it's saintmode list .saintmode_threshold can be set to the maximum
list size. Setting a value of 0 disables saintmode checking entirely
for that backend.  The value in the backend declaration overrides the
parameter.

Directors
---------

Directors choose from different backends based on health status and a
per-director algorithm.  There currently exists a round-robin and a
random director.

Directors are defined using:::

  director b2 random {
    .retries = 5;
    {
      // We can refer to named backends
      .backend = b1;
      .weight  = 7;
    }
    {
      // Or define them inline 
      .backend  = {
        .host = "fs2";
      }
    .weight         = 3;
    }
  } 

The random director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The random director takes one per director option .retries.  This
specifies how many tries it will use to find a working backend.  The
default is the same as the number of backends defined for the
director.

There is also a per-backend option: weight which defines the portion
of traffic to send to the particular backend.

The round-robin director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The round-robin does not take any options.

The DNS director
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The DNS director can use backends in three different ways. Either like the
random or round-robin director or using .list::

  director directorname dns {
          .list = {
                  .host_header = "www.example.com";
                  .port = "80";
                  .connection_timeout = 0.4;
                  "192.168.15.0"/24;
                  "192.168.16.128"/25;
          }
          .ttl = 5m;
          .suffix = "internal.example.net";
  }

This will specify 384 backends, all using port 80 and a connection timeout
of 0.4s. Options must come before the list of IPs in the .list statement.

The .ttl defines the cache duration of the DNS lookups.

The above example will append "internal.example.net" to the incoming Host
header supplied by the client, before looking it up. All settings are
optional.


Backend probes
--------------

Backends can be probed to see whether they should be considered
healthy or not.  The return status can also be checked by using
req.backend.healthy .window is how many of the latest polls we
examine, while .threshold is how many of those must have succeeded for
us to consider the backend healthy.  .initial is how many of the
probes are considered good when Varnish starts - defaults to the same
amount as the threshold.

A backend with a probe can be defined like this:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .probe = {
      .url = "/test.jpg";
      .timeout = 0.3 s;
      .window = 8;
      .threshold = 3;
      .initial = 3;
    }
  }

It is also possible to specify the raw HTTP request::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "http";
    .probe = {
      # NB: \r\n automatically inserted after each string!
      .request =
        "GET / HTTP/1.1"
        "Host: www.foo.bar"
        "Connection: close";
    }
  }

ACLs
----

An ACL declaration creates and initializes a named access control list
which can later be used to match client addresses:::

  acl local {
    "localhost";         // myself
    "192.0.2.0"/24;      // and everyone on the local network
    ! "192.0.2.23";      // except for the dialin router 
  }

If an ACL entry specifies a host name which Varnish is unable to
resolve, it will match any address it is com‐ pared to.  Consequently,
if it is preceded by a negation mark, it will reject any address it is
compared to, which may not be what you intended.  If the entry is
enclosed in parentheses, however, it will simply be ignored.

To match an IP address against an ACL, simply use the match operator:::

  if (client.ip ~ local) {
    pipe;
  }

Grace
-----

If the backend takes a long time to generate an object there is a risk
of a thread pile up.  In order to prevent this you can enable grace.
This allows varnish to serve an expired version of the object while a
fresh object is being generated by the backend.

The following vcl code will make Varnish serve expired objects.  All
object will be kept up to two minutes past their expiration time or a
fresh object is generated.::

  sub vcl_recv {
    set req.grace = 2m;
  }
  sub vcl_fetch {
    set beresp.grace = 2m;
  }

Functions
---------

The following built-in functions are available:

regsub(str, regex, sub)
  Returns a copy of str with the first occurrence of the regular 
  expression regex replaced with sub. Within sub, \0 (which can 
  also be spelled &) is replaced with the entire matched string, 
  and \n is replaced with the contents of subgroup n in the 
  matched string.

regsuball(str, regex, sub)
  As regsuball() but this replaces all occurrences.

purge_url(regex)
  Purge all objects in cache whose URLs match regex.

Subroutines
~~~~~~~~~~~

A subroutine is used to group code for legibility or reusability:::
  
  sub pipe_if_local {
    if (client.ip ~ local) {
      pipe;
    }
  }

Subroutines in VCL do not take arguments, nor do they return values.

To call a subroutine, use the call keyword followed by the subroutine's name:

call pipe_if_local;

There are a number of special subroutines which hook into the Varnish
workflow.  These subroutines may inspect and manipulate HTTP headers
and various other aspects of each request, and to a certain extent
decide how the request should be handled.  Each subroutine terminates
by calling one of a small number of keywords which indi‐ cates the
desired outcome.

vcl_recv
  Called at the beginning of a request, after the complete request has
  been received and parsed.  Its purpose is to decide whether or not
  to serve the request, how to do it, and, if applicable, which backend
  to use.

  The vcl_recv subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass    
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  pipe    
    Switch to pipe mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pipe.

  refresh
    Go through normal caching channels, but guarantee a cache miss even if
    there is valid content in the cache, thereby performing a controlled
    refresh of the content.

  lookup  
    Look up the requested object in the cache.  Control will
    eventually pass to vcl_hit or vcl_miss, depending on whether the
    object is in the cache.

vcl_pipe
  Called upon entering pipe mode.  In this mode, the request is passed
  on to the backend, and any further data from either client or
  backend is passed on unaltered until either end closes the
  connection.

  The vcl_pipe subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pipe
    Proceed with pipe mode.

vcl_pass
  Called upon entering pass mode.  In this mode, the request is passed
  on to the backend, and the backend's response is passed on to the
  client, but is not entered into the cache.  Subsequent requests sub‐
  mitted over the same client connection are handled normally.

  The vcl_pass subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Proceed with pass mode.

vcl_hash
  Use req.hash += req.http.Cookie or similar to include the Cookie HTTP
  header in the hash string.  The vcl_hash subroutine may terminate with
  one of the following keywords:

  hash
    Proceed.

vcl_hit
  Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was found in the cache.

  The vcl_hit subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  deliver
    Deliver the cached object to the client.  Control will eventually
    pass to vcl_deliver.

vcl_miss
  Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was not found
  in the cache.  Its purpose is to decide whether or not to attempt to
  retrieve the document from the backend, and which backend to use.

  The vcl_miss subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  fetch
    Retrieve the requested object from the backend.  Control will
    eventually pass to vcl_fetch.

vcl_fetch
  Called after a document has been successfully retrieved from the backend.

  The vcl_fetch subroutine may terminate with one of the following keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  pass
    Switch to pass mode.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_pass.

  deliver
    Possibly insert the object into the cache, then deliver it to the
    client.  Control will eventually pass to vcl_deliver.

  esi
     ESI-process the document which has just been fetched.

vcl_deliver
  Called before a cached object is delivered to the client.

  The vcl_deliver subroutine may terminate with one of the following
  keywords:

  error code [reason]
    Return the specified error code to the client and abandon the request.

  deliver
    Deliver the object to the client.

If one of these subroutines is left undefined or terminates without
reaching a handling decision, control will be handed over to the
builtin default.  See the EXAMPLES section for a listing of the
default code.

Multiple subroutines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If multiple subroutines with the same name are defined, they are
concatenated in the order in which the appear in the source.

Example:::

	# in file "main.vcl"
	include "backends.vcl";
	include "purge.vcl";

	# in file "backends.vcl"
	sub vcl_recv {
	  if (req.http.host ~ "example.com") {
	    set req.backend = foo;
	  } elsif (req.http.host ~ "example.org") {
	    set req.backend = bar;
	  }
	}

	# in file "purge.vcl"
	sub vcl_recv {
	  if (client.ip ~ admin_network) {
	    if (req.http.Cache-Control ~ "no-cache") {
	      purge_url(req.url);
	    }
	  }
	}

The builtin default subroutines are implicitly appended in this way.

Variables
~~~~~~~~~

Although subroutines take no arguments, the necessary information is
made available to the handler subroutines through global variables.

The following variables are always available:

now   
  The current time, in seconds since the epoch.

The following variables are available in backend declarations:

.host
  Host name or IP address of a backend.

.port
  Service name or port number of a backend.

The following variables are available while processing a request:

client.ip
  The client's IP address.

server.hostname
  The host name of the server.

server.identity 
  The identity of the server, as set by the -i
  parameter.  If the -i parameter is not passed to varnishd,
  server.identity will be set to the name of the instance, as
  specified by the -n parameter.

server.ip
  The IP address of the socket on which the client connection was received.

server.port
  The port number of the socket on which the client connection was received.

req.request
  The request type (e.g. "GET", "HEAD").

req.url
  The requested URL.

req.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used by the client.

req.backend
  The backend to use to service the request.

req.backend.healthy
  Whether the backend is healthy or not.

req.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

The following variables are available while preparing a backend
request (either for a cache miss or for pass or pipe mode):

bereq.request
  The request type (e.g. "GET", "HEAD").

bereq.url
  The requested URL.

bereq.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used to talk to the server.

bereq.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

bereq.connect_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait for a backend connection.

bereq.first_byte_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait for the first byte from the backend.  Not
  available in pipe mode.

bereq.between_bytes_timeout
  The time in seconds to wait between each received byte from the
  backend.  Not available in pipe mode.

XXX: Aren't these beresp now?

The following variables are available after the requested object has
been retrieved from cache or from the backend:

obj.proto
  The HTTP protocol version used when the object was retrieved.

obj.status
  The HTTP status code returned by the server.

obj.response
The HTTP status message returned by the server.

obj.cacheable
  True if the request resulted in a cacheable response.  A response is
  considered cacheable if it is valid (see above), and the HTTP status
  code is 200, 203, 300, 301, 302, 404 or 410.

obj.ttl
  The object's remaining time to live, in seconds.

obj.lastuse
  The approximate time elapsed since the object was last requests, in
  seconds.

obj.hits
  The approximate number of times the object has been delivered. A value 
  of 0 indicates a cache miss.

The following variables are available while determining the hash key
of an object:

req.hash
  The hash key used to refer to an object in the cache.  Used when
  both reading from and writing to the cache.

The following variables are available while preparing a response to the client:

resp.proto
  The HTTP protocol version to use for the response.

resp.status
  The HTTP status code that will be returned.

resp.response
  The HTTP status message that will be returned.

resp.http.header
  The corresponding HTTP header.

Values may be assigned to variables using the set keyword:::

  sub vcl_recv {
    # Normalize the Host: header
    if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
      set req.http.host = "www.example.com";
      }
   }

HTTP headers can be removed entirely using the remove keyword:::

  sub vcl_fetch {
    # Don't cache cookies
    remove obj.http.Set-Cookie;
  }

EXAMPLES
========

The following code is the equivalent of the default configuration with
the backend address set to "backend.example.com" and no backend port
specified:::

  backend default {
   .host = "backend.example.com";
   .port = "http";
  }

.. include:: ../../../man/default.vcl
  :literal:

The following example shows how to support multiple sites running on
separate backends in the same Varnish instance, by selecting backends
based on the request URL:::

  backend www {
    .host = "www.example.com";
    .port = "80";
  }
  
  backend images {
    .host = "images.example.com";
    .port = "80";
  }
  
  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.http.host ~ "^(www.)?example.com$") {
      set req.http.host = "www.example.com";
      set req.backend = www;
    } elsif (req.http.host ~ "^images.example.com$") {
      set req.backend = images;
    } else {
      error 404 "Unknown virtual host";
    }
  }

  The following snippet demonstrates how to force a minimum TTL for
  all documents.  Note that this is not the same as setting the
  default_ttl run-time parameter, as that only affects document for
  which the backend did not specify a TTL:::
  
  sub vcl_fetch {
    if (obj.ttl < 120s) {
    set obj.ttl = 120s;
    }
  }

The following snippet demonstrates how to force Varnish to cache
documents even when cookies are present:::

  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "GET" && req.http.cookie) {
    call(lookup);
    }
  }
  
  sub vcl_fetch {
    if (beresp.http.Set-Cookie) {
    deliver;
   }
  }

The following code implements the HTTP PURGE method as used by Squid
for object invalidation:::

  acl purge {
    "localhost";
    "192.0.2.1"/24;
  }

  sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
    if (!client.ip ~ purge) {
      error 405 "Not allowed.";
    }
    lookup;
    }
  }

  sub vcl_hit {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
      set obj.ttl = 0s;
      error 200 "Purged.";
    }
  }

  sub vcl_miss {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
    error 404 "Not in cache.";
    }
  }

SEE ALSO
========

* varnishd(1)

HISTORY
=======

The VCL language was developed by Poul-Henning Kamp in cooperation
with Verdens Gang AS, Linpro AS and Varnish Software.  This manual
page was written by Dag-Erling Smørgrav and later edited by
Poul-Henning Kamp and Per Buer.

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same licence as Varnish
itself. See LICENCE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2006 Verdens Gang AS
* Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Redpill Linpro AS
* Copyright (c) 2010 Varnish Software AS
