.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Verdens Gang AS
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Linpro AS
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Author: Dag-Erling Smørgrav <des@linpro.no>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.\"
.Dd October 5, 2006
.Dt VCL 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm VCL
.Nd Varnish Configuration Language
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
language is a small domain-specific language designed to be used to
define request handling and document caching policies for the Varnish
HTTP accelerator.
.Pp
When a new configuration is loaded, the
.Nm varnishd
management process translates the VCL code to C and compiles it to a
shared object which is then dynamically linked into the server
process.
.Ss Syntax
The VCL syntax is very simple, and deliberately similar to C and Perl.
Blocks are delimited by curly braces, statements end with semicolons,
and comments may be written as in C, C++ or Perl according to your own
preferences.
.Pp
In addition to the C-like assignment (=), comparison (==) and boolean
(!, && and ||) operators, VCL supports regular expression and ACL
matching using the ~ operator.
.Pp
Unlike C and Perl, the backslash (\\) character has no special meaning
in strings in VCL,
so it can be freely used in regular expressions without doubling.
.Pp
Assignments are introduced with the
.Cm set
keyword.
There are no user-defined variables; values can only be assigned to
variables attached to backend, request or document objects.
Most of these are typed, and the values assigned to them must have a
compatible unit suffix.
.Pp
VCL has
.Cm if
tests, but no loops.
.Ss Backend declarations
A backend declaration creates and initializes a named backend object:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
backend www {
    set backend.host = "www.example.com";
    set backend.port = "http";
}
.Ed
.Pp
The backend object can later be used to select a backend at request
time:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
if (req.http.host ~ "^(www\.)?example.com$") {
    set req.backend = www;
}
.Ed
.Ss ACLs
An ACL declaration creates and initializes a named access control list
which can later be used to match client addresses:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
acl local {
    "locahost";         /* myself */
    "10.0.0.1"/8;       /* and everyone on the local network */
    ! "10.0.0.23";      /* except for the dialin router */
}
.Ed
.Pp
If an ACL entry specifies a host name which Varnish is unable to
resolve, it will match any address it is compared to.
Consequently, if it is preceded by a negation mark, it will reject any
address it is compared to, which may not be what you intended.
If the entry is enclosed in parentheses, however, it will simply be
ignored.
.Pp
To match an IP address against an ACL, simply use the match operator:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
if (client.ip ~ local) {
    pipe;
}
.Ed
.Ss Subroutines
A subroutine is used to group code for legibility or reusability:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
sub pipe_if_local {
    if (client.ip ~ local) {
        pipe;
    }
}
.Ed
.Pp
Subroutines in VCL do not take arguments, nor do they return values.
.Pp
To call a subroutine, use the
.Cm call
keyword followed by the subroutine's name:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
call pipe_if_local;
.Ed
.Pp
There are five special subroutines which hook into the Varnish
workflow:
.Bl -tag -width "vcl_timeout"
.It Cm vcl_recv
Called at the beginning of a request, after the complete request has
been received and parsed.
Its purpose is to decide whether or not to serve the request, how to
do it, and, if applicanle, which backend to use.
.\" If the document is to be served from cache, however, backend selection
.\" can be postponed until
.\" .Cm vcl_miss .
.It Cm vcl_hit
Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was found in the
cache.
.\" Its purpose...
.It Cm vcl_miss
Called after a cache lookup if the requested document was not found in
the cache.
Its purpose is to decide whether or not to attempt to retrieve the
document from the backend, and which backend to use.
.It Cm vcl_fetch
Called after a document has been retrieved from the backend, before it
is inserted into the cache.
.It Cm vcl_timeout
Called by the reaper thread when a cached document has reached its
expiry time.
.\" Its purpose...
.El
.Pp
If one of these subroutines is left undefined or terminates without
reaching a handling decision, control will be handed over to the
builtin default.
See the
.Sx EXAMPLES
section for a listing of the default code.
.Ss Variables
Although subroutines take no arguments, the necessary information is
made available to the handler subroutines through global variables.
.Pp
The following variables are available in backend declarations:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Va backend.host
Host name or IP address of a backend.
.It Va backend.port
Service name or port number of a backend.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are available while processing a request:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Va client.ip
The client's IP address.
.It Va req.request
The request type (e.g. "GET", "HEAD").
.It Va req.url
The requested URL.
.It Va req.proto
The HTTP protocol version used by the client.
.It Va req.backend
The backend to use to service the request.
.It Va req.http. Ns Ar header
The corresponding
.Ar header
from the HTTP request.
.El
.Pp
The following variables are available after the requested object has
been retrieved from cache or from the backend:
.Bl -tag -width 4n
.It Va obj.valid
True if the object was successfully retrieved.
.It Va obj.cacheable
True if the object is cacheable.
.\" XXX what are the criteria?
.It Va obj.ttl
The object's time to live.
.\" .It Va resp.http. Ns Ar header
.\" XXX not implemented?
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following code is the equivalent of the default configuration with
the backend address set to "backend.example.com" and no backend port
specified.
.\" Keep this in synch with bin/varnishd/mgt_vcc.c
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
backend default {
    set backend.host = "backend.example.com";
    set backend.port = "http";
}

sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request != "GET" && req.request != "HEAD") {
        pipe;
    }
    if (req.http.Expect) {
        pipe;
    }
    if (req.http.Authenticate || req.http.Cookie) {
        pass;
    }
    lookup;
}

sub vcl_hit {
    if (!obj.cacheable) {
        pass;
    }
    deliver;
}

sub vcl_miss {
    fetch;
}

sub vcl_fetch {
    if (!obj.valid) {
        error;
    }
    if (!obj.cacheable) {
        insert_pass;
    }
    if (resp.http.Set-Cookie) {
        insert_pass;
    }
    insert;
}

sub vcl_timeout {
    discard;
};
.Ed
.Pp
The following example shows how to support multiple sites running on
separate backends in the same Varnish instance, by selecting backends
based on the request URL.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
backend www {
    set backend.host = "www.example.com";
    set backend.port = "80";
}

backend images {
    set backend.host = "images.example.com";
    set backend.port = "80";
}

sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.http.host ~ "^(www\.)?example\.com$") {
        set req.backend = www;
    } elsif (req.http.host ~ "^images\.example\.com") {
        set req.backend = images;
    } else {
        error 404 "Unknown virtual host";
    }
}
.Ed
.Pp
The following snippet demonstrates how to force a minimum TTL for all
documents.
Note that this is not the same as setting the
.Va default_ttl
run-time parameter, as that only affects document for which the
backend did not specify a TTL.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
sub vcl_fetch {
    if (obj.ttl < 120s) {
        set obj.ttl = 120s;
    }
}
.Ed
.Pp
The following snippet demonstrates how to force Varnish to cache
documents even when cookies are present.
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "GET" && req.http.cookie) {
        lookup;
    }
}

sub vcl_fetch {
    if (resp.http.Set-Cookie) {
        insert;
    }
}
.Ed
.Pp
The following code implements the HTTP PURGE method as used by Squid
for object invalidation:
.Bd -literal -offset 4n
acl purge {
        "localhost";
        "10.0.0.1"/8;
}

sub vcl_recv {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
        if (!client.ip ~ purge) {
            error 405 "Not allowed.";
        }
        lookup;
    }
}

sub vcl_hit {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
        set obj.ttl = 0s;
        error 200 "Purged.";
    }
}

sub vcl_miss {
    if (req.request == "PURGE") {
        error 404 "Not in cache.";
    }
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr varnishd 1
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
language was developed by
.An Poul-Henning Kamp Aq phk@phk.freebsd.dk
in cooperation with Verdens Gang AS and Linpro AS.
This manual page was written by
.An Dag-Erling Sm\(/orgrav Aq des@linpro.no .
