doc/sphinx/tutorial/index.rst, before:

.. _tutorial-index:

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Varnish Tutorial
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Varnish is a web accelerator. It is installed in frond of your web
application and it caches the reponses, making your web site run  Varnish
is fast, flexible and easy to use.

This tutorial does not go through every bit of functionality Varnish
has. It will give you a good overview of what Varnish does and how it
is done.

We assume you have a web server and a web application up and running
and that you want to accelerate this application with Varnish.

Furthermore we assume you have read the :ref:`Installation` and that
it is installed with the default configuration.



.. toctree:: 

	backend_servers.rst
        starting_varnish.rst
	logging.rst
        putting_varnish_on_port_80.rst
	vcl.rst
        statistics.rst
        increasing_your_hitrate.rst
	advanced_backend_servers.rst
        handling_misbehaving_servers.rst
	troubleshooting.rst

.. todo::
        starting varnish with -d, seeing a transaction go through
        explain varnishlog output for a miss and a hit
        a few simple VCL tricks, including switching VCL on the fly
        The helpers: varnishstat, varnishhist, varnishtop varnishncsa
        Now that you know how it works, lets talk planning:
        - backend, directors and polling
        - storage
        - logging
        - management CLI & security
        - ESI
        Real life examples:
        - A real life varnish explained
        - A more complex real life varnish explained
        - Sky's Wikia Setup
        Varnishtest
        - What varnishtest does and why
        - writing simple test-cases
        - using varnishtest to test your VCL
        - using varnishtest to reproduce bugs

Commit message:

advanced topics pointed out + some minor fixes
git-svn-id: http://www.varnish-cache.org/svn/trunk/varnish-cache@4949 d4fa192b-c00b-0410-8231-f00ffab90ce4

doc/sphinx/tutorial/index.rst, after:

.. _tutorial-index:

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Varnish Tutorial
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Varnish is a web accelerator. It is installed in frond of your web
application and it caches the reponses, making your web site run  Varnish
is fast, flexible and easy to use.

This tutorial does not go through every bit of functionality Varnish
has. It will give you a good overview of what Varnish does and how it
is done.

We assume you have a web server and a web application up and running
and that you want to accelerate this application with Varnish.

Furthermore we assume you have read the :ref:`install-index` and that
it is installed with the default configuration.



.. toctree:: 

	backend_servers.rst
        starting_varnish.rst
	logging.rst
        putting_varnish_on_port_80.rst
	vcl.rst
        statistics.rst
        increasing_your_hitrate.rst
	advanced_backend_servers.rst
        handling_misbehaving_servers.rst
        advanced_topics.rst
	troubleshooting.rst

.. todo::
        starting varnish with -d, seeing a transaction go through
        explain varnishlog output for a miss and a hit
        a few simple VCL tricks, including switching VCL on the fly
        The helpers: varnishstat, varnishhist, varnishtop varnishncsa
        Now that you know how it works, lets talk planning:
        - backend, directors and polling
        - storage
        - logging
        - management CLI & security
        - ESI
        Real life examples:
        - A real life varnish explained
        - A more complex real life varnish explained
        - Sky's Wikia Setup
        Varnishtest
        - What varnishtest does and why
        - writing simple test-cases
        - using varnishtest to test your VCL
        - using varnishtest to reproduce bugs
